# Data-Driven-Force-Estimation-of-the-Thigh-Muscles-using-Electrical-Impedance-Measurements
Experimental study: Data-Driven Force Measurement of the Thigh Muscles using Electrical Impedance Measurements

**Abstract:** The aim of this study is to use electrical impedance tomography to estimate the 
force generated by the thigh muscle during concentric knee extension. 
These findings may contribute significantly to the assessment of muscle forces 
in everyday life and may be used for therapeutic purposes.

## Experimental data aqcuisition

The participants are positioned on a force-measuring device (Isoforce).
This is adjusted to their anthropometric measurements, and the range of motion of 
the leg to be examined is determined.

The EIT measurements are recorded using an EIT device (Sciospec EIT64, Sciospec 
Scientific Instruments GmbH, Germany). 
For this purpose, a self-made flexible electrode belt with 16 electrodes is
placed approximately in the middle of the thigh.
It is checked that all electrodes are in contact with the skin.

During the measurements, participants are asked to move their leg from the 
maximum flexed position to the maximum extended position.
An angular velocity of 30°/s is set by the Isofroce during this movement.

At the start of the movement, a visual torque target (displayed on a monitor) 
should be reached as quickly as possible and maintained throughout the movement (approximately 4 seconds).

Three trials are carried out with three different torques to allow the participants to become accustomed to the optical torque target.
The optical torque targets for the actual measurements are: 20Nm, 30Nm, 40Nm, 50Nm, 60Nm, 70Nm and 80Nm. 
The order of the measured torques is randomly shuffled for each participant and each of the target torques is measured twice.
In total 14 measurements are conducted for each participant.

The settings of the EIT device are listed below.

<div align="center">

| Config   | Value  | 
|----------|--------|
| n_el     | 16     |
| exc_freq | 125kHz |
| framerate| 40fps  |
| amplitude|  0.01A |
| inj_skip |  8     |
| gain     |  1     |
| adc_range|  1     |
</div>

## Postprocessing pipeline
